on today's show looks like the Ford GT
is going to get manufactured in Canada
Consumer Reports says independent repair
shop score higher the dealers and one
supplier is already designing interiors
for autonomous technology all that and
more coming right up on autoline daily
this is Otto lang daily for January 22
of 2015 well we've got more information
about the four GT the data company
called Auto forecast solutions is
reporting that it will be built by a
Canadian company called multimatic which
supplies all kinds of parts and
components to the automotive industry it
also manufactures concept and raising
cars including the aston martin cc100
the Dodge Viper gts-r and the Ford Focus
Daytona Prototype the GT will reportedly
be made at a purpose-built manufacturing
facility of multi maddux in Markham
Ontario which of course is in Canada
Ward's reports that General Motors is
asking suppliers to bid on a CVT that it
plans to bring out in 2019 even the Ford
Motor Company which based its fuel
economy strategy around downsized
turbocharged engines now admits it's
going to have to start using CVTs as
well though enthusiasts drivers despise
them continuously variable transmissions
deliver terrific real world economy just
to give you a comparison at the north
american car of the year test drive
inhale michigan two years ago i got 33
miles to the gallon in a CDT nissan
altima on my test route i got 32 MPGs in
a CVT honda accord and i got 22 MPGs in
a two liter ecoboost ford fusion still
to come a spin behind the wheel of the
new land rover discovery sport CR says
independent shops are preferred over
dealers and a supplier provides its
vision of what an autonomous car
interior could look like autoline daily
is brought to you by Bridgestone tires
your journey our passion and by Dow
automotive systems breakthrough
technologies for lightweight vehicles
we just got the chance to get behind the
wheel of Land Rovers new SUV the
discovery sport and here are the quick
highlights for us customers it's offered
with a two liter four-cylinder gasoline
engine that's made it to a nine-speed
automatic which helps it get 23 MPGs
combined a diesel is coming later but
the company did not say when it will be
available in North America we drove the
discovery sport in Iceland and as you'd
expect from a land rover it handled well
in the snow and off-road inside there's
plenty of room for passengers in the
first and second rows there is a third
row that folds flat but most adults
would have a hard time squeezing into it
other features include a new touchscreen
infotainment system and USB plugs for
every passenger the discovery sport goes
on sale later this year with a starting
price just under forty thousand dollars
for some people having to take their
vehicle in for service can be a very
intimidating thing and we've seen
firsthand how people get raked over the
coals for repairs they really didn't
need but according to Consumer Reports
you should be going to an independent
shop rather than a dealership if you
want to be happy with the repair in its
most recent survey CR found that
independence outscore dealers for
overall satisfaction price quality
courteousness of the staff and work
being completed when promised the only
exception amongst automakers was Tesla
you know it can be very easy to lose a
customer for even the smallest of
miscues and word of mouth for any repair
facility can be a very powerful thing
whether it's good or bad hey we're
headed to the national auto dealers
association annual meeting in San
Francisco this weekend we'll start
posting interviews from that show
tomorrow and into next week so if you're
interested in what's happening in the
retail side of the business we invite
you to check it out coming up next auto
makers aren't the only ones planning for
autonomous cars now suppliers are
getting ready for the new technology
for the people at Dow racing as a sport
and a science we enjoy one and learn
from the other but like most competitive
people we like winning at both this is
the human element at work down just
about every major automaker is working
on autonomous technology earlier this
month Mercedes showed off its fo 15
concept car that offers fully autonomous
capability the interior of the car shows
the seats facing each other because if
the car can drive itself the driver does
not have to be looking out the
windshield but before we get to full
autonomy we're going to have semi
autonomous cars that will allow the car
to drive itself at lower speeds in
traffic jams and with this system the
driver will have to be able to take
control when the car is able to reach
higher speeds that's why we were
intrigued to see that Johnson Controls
is already working on concept interiors
for cars that will come equipped with
traffic jam assist after the driver has
set the car in autonomous mode he or she
can slide out a small table from the
center console that allows them to read
a book or work with a laptop or tablet
when the traffic starts to clear the
driver gets a visual morning that it's
time to start putting everything away
and take control of the car again since
you can work while the car drives jci
cleverly packaged a lot more storage
space into the interior including a
glove box with a tray that can be easily
adjusted to hold different sized tablets
the center console and door panels use
what are called tambour doors which
easily slide back and forth and can also
bend into different configurations
tambour doors don't need any hinges or
latches so they reduce cost and weight
what we find most interesting about this
concept is that here we have a supplier
already looking ahead to semi autonomous
cars and that suggests to us they are
only a few years away
hey that wraps up today's show thanks
for watching and please join us again
tomorrow